+++
title = "iA Writer vs Emacs"
author = ["Robert Clay"]
date = 2022-11-23
lastmod = 2022-11-23T08:30:34+09:00
categories = ["topic"]
draft = true
+++

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2022-11-23 Wed]</span></span>,#writting


## Emacs is great for both  {#emacs-is-great-for-both}

I purchased an iPad recently and decided it was time to also Start writing more on my blog. Nothing stopped my from writing the blog, I just got bogged down with trouble shooting it. I was using a package called ox-Hugo in Emacs to let me write in Org-mode rather than needing to write markdown files, but it was doing something funky in the final file output and my Blog has these weird entries that I could not figure out. I did some house cleaning when I got the iPad and after reading up on how Hugo works, I discovered the problem. The Emacs package was making an extra file I didn’t need. And that is what made me think of using iA Writer again.

iA Writer is an app for iOS and Mac …

https://ia.net/writer

…and it’s fantastic. It feels like the IDE of markdown writing. I purchased it when I was using my iPad more heavily, thinking it could be my note taking app, but I found the power of Org-mode files more useful and I had stopped using iA writer for much of anything. But when I realized the blog needed markdown files so I could avoid needing to rely on that Emacs package, I realized this was a great chance to get back into using the app. And yes, it has been really nice to use again. Let’s do some pros and cons, then some more direct comparison to Emacs.

Let’s start with editing. 
- Con: Editing is only about as good as iOS.
	Editing is not bad. It’s just not any better than editing text in say the Apple Notes app. It’s fine. I can drag with my fingers on the screen of my iPad and select text. I can press on words underlined in red to select the correct spelling. But it’s nothing that the app does it’s self. That doesn’t have to be a bad thing. If you like the experience of editing text on an iOS device, iA Writer doesn’t detract from that in any way. But it’s not like editing text in Emacs.
	
	I may have mentioned somewhere in this blog that Vim and Emacs keybindings are amazing. Especially Vim’s bindings. Emacs bindings are not particularly special, but they ARE mostly built into MacOS and iOS. So things like [C-p]…
	(Side note: that is Emacs notation for keybindings. The brackets show the extent of the binding the the capital “c” is for holding the control key. So [C-p] is how you write “control p”) 
	…or [C-n] for moving the cursor up or down a line just works in most apps across the Mac ecosystem. Those bindings originated from Emacs so it’s nice to have one less thing to need to memorize. But Vim… modal editing with Vim bindings make pressing on my iPad screen with my fingers feel barbaric. Why do all that work to select a line of text when I should be able to “shift v” and select a whole line? My hands are already on the keyboard. Why reach all the way up to the screen? “Shift+option+up-arrow” is a way to select to the front of end of a paragraph, but it’s a lot of keys and I don’t really use them anywhere else. And I won’t even get into Vim motions of Emacs macros. 
	
- Pro: “Syntax highlighting” for prose.
	iA Writer will color text based on the kind of word it is. In the same way that it’s nice to see in source code that a word is the name of a function because of the color it turns, iA Writer will color nouns, verbs, and a few other types of words if you so choose. It’s really quite cool. Combined with a “focus” features that will dim and grey-out all the words in the sentences (optionally parahraph) before what you are writing, and you have this fascinating way of focusing on the words that you are putting down on to the “paper”… er markdown file. 
	Emacs could probably be made to do something similar with enough code, but no packages spring to mind, and I can’t imagine the code needed to get this working from scratch. It took a lot of work to make this work, and I’m plenty happy letting the iA Writer team build and maintain that for me. 
	
- Pro: Simplicity
	Emacs is wonderful; it’s wonderful because of all it can do. iA Writer is wonderful because of how little you need to think about. Emacs is a “workshop” for working with text. iA Writer is a focused tool for writing prose. Emacs can talk to other programs and execute code, run text through small programs, and be extended as needed with Lisp. iA writer doesn’t let you fuss around with anything that is not relevant to “getting the words on the page”. 
	
	The tougher comparison for iA Writer is against Vim. But seriously, who would pick Vim as their markdown app in 2022? I know they are out there. But Vim “feels” more complicated. If you already know the Vim bindings, you could certainly edit text faster in Vim. But if you had an iOS device, getting Vim up and running is a pain. All the complication of getting it running ruins the true simple genius of Vim. iA Writer doesn’t fall victim of that complication. Underneath, it is more complicated. But from the end-user’s perspective, it “feels” simple.  
	
- Con: File access 
	Emacs doesn’t particularly care where your files are. If you want, you can even edit files over SSH. iA Writer on the other hand tries to be simple by only giving first class treatment to files in you iA Writer folder in iCloud. It’s a smart move for what the app is. Who is going to want to check their markdown files into git in 2022? How many writers would rather let iCloud be their back-up, and build in a file-edit-history into the app? Most of the people who would buy a markdown editor for iOS. But I am not one of those people. I actually really like Git. My Blog lives in a git repository. I need my blog posts to be markdown files checked into version control. I don’t need iCloud. I don’t want iCloud messing with the .git file in the repo. 
	
	But it’s a compromise. And it feels “true” to the goal of the app. An effective, simple tool for writing markdown. Is it trying to be the most flexible? No. Is iCloud simpler for most people? Yes. So I am left to use the “second class” option and do a but more file browsing, or need to find a workaround. I think I found one, but I think I may still get corrupted files in the git repository now and again. Time will tell if I have set my self up to loose files one day. In the mean time a git client I bought for iOS is helping me work with a git repo in iCloud Drive, and I think it’s going to be okay. 
	