+++
title = "Live 11"
author = ["Robert Clay"]
date = 2021-02-26
lastmod = 2024-08-14T08:52:57+09:00
categories = ["topic"]
draft = false
+++

<span class="timestamp-wrapper"><span class="timestamp">[2021-02-26 Fri]</span></span>,#music


## Live 11 is really impressive {#live-11-is-really-impressive}

I may have never mentioned it here, but I was a music major in college. Music is
what I do, and will always be part of where most of my focus and energy in
technology always tends towards. And last year after getting a used Roli Seabord
I purchased repaired, I was looking forward to doing more with MPE.

After spending my last year learning Python and working in terminals and with
plain text, it has been really interesting getting back into a professional tool
that is mostly a GUI. I guess you could say MaxMSP is something I have been
working with recently that has a GUI, but it also feels like more of a coding
tool, albeit a visual programming language.


## MPE has been implemented really well {#mpe-has-been-implemented-really-well}

There are still things here and there that I wish gave me a little more control,
but I think it does a really good job of handling most of the complication you
want it to and not force your to deal with all the configuration.

Wavetable and the few VSTs that I own that are MPE capable work pretty well, and
I think the fact that it feels like it's supposed to work that way instead of
what I was doing before to fake MPE with multiple tracks on different midi
channels.

The new effects are nice too, and I like the sounds Spitfire Audio contributed
to Live 11 Suite.


## I appreciate it more having tired to make software myself {#i-appreciate-it-more-having-tired-to-make-software-myself}

I spend many days trying to get lists of things to fit into lists somewhere else,
and to have a hardware midi controller talking to a DAW, which tells a
synthesizer made by another company send audio back to a driver, running a
hardware audio interface, and it all just works, I am very impressed... haha.

It's not perfect, somethings don't work the way I would expect them to, but when
it doesn't got right on the inside, I as the user rarely see a huge
show-stopping complaint from my computer saying that something went wrong. MIDI
is a stream of data, and usually a note-on message is always followed by a
note-off message (unless something goes wrong). But sometimes things go wrong,
and I am really happy with how well the whole system seems to handle less than
perfect scenario.


## I have a lot to learn about how to use it better {#i-have-a-lot-to-learn-about-how-to-use-it-better}

I think when I was younger I spent more time with the software and felt I didn't
have much to learn. Now that I spend less time with it, it feels like I need to
work harder to get it under my fingers. But now that I think about it, I think
when I was younger I just didn't really know how much I knew. Now that I have
seen how deep the rabbit hole goes, I think I see a lot more depth in things
that I thought were pretty finite and predictable.
